Checking for Bad Characters
Depending on the application,
vulnerability type, and protocols in use,
there may be certain characters that are
considered “bad”
and should not be used in our buffer,
return address, or shellcode.
One example of a common bad character,
especially in buffer overflows caused by
unchecked string copy operations,
is the null byte.
This character is considered bad because a
null byte is also used
to terminate a string
in low level languages such as C or C++.
This will cause the string copy operation
to end,
effectively truncating our buffer at the
first instance of a null byte.
In addition, since we are sending the
exploit as part of an HTTP POST request,
we should avoid the return character,
which signifies the end of an HTTP field,
in this case the username.
An experienced exploit developer will
always check for bad characters.
One way to determine which characters are
bad for a particular exploit
is to send all possible characters, from
00 to FF,
as part of our buffer, and see how the
application deals with these characters
after the crash.
To do this, we will repurpose the proof of
concept script
and replace our D’s with all possible hex
characters, except 00.
We’ll run this proof of concept and
examine the crash.
After executing our proof of concept, we
can right-click on ESP
and select Follow in Dump to show the
input buffer hex characters in memory.
The dump shows that only the hex values
01 through 09
made it into the stack memory buffer.
There is no sign of the next character,
0A, which should follow 09.
This is not surprising when we consider
that the 0A character
represents a line feed, which terminates
an HTTP field
much the same way as a carriage return.
We’ll quickly restart sync breeze and
immunity before we edit our script.
We’ll remove 0A from our bad characters
variable and re-run the script.
After removing the 0A character from our
script and resending the payload,
the resulting buffer terminates after the
hex value 0C,
indicating that 0D, the return character,
is also bad as we’ve already discussed.
Continuing in this manner, we discover
that all  these characters will mangle
our input buffer while attempting to
overflow the destination buffer.